- [Instructor] Orchestrated events,
as I previously mentioned,
are a much more common pattern
within the asynchronous, event-driven microservices model.
The command and control they offer makes sense,
in a lot of architectural decisions that are attractive
to software architects, as well as developers.
There are a lot of use cases for orchestrated events,
but I want to talk about a few that I've personally used
in a microservices architecture,
leveraging event driven asynchronous communications.
I tend to call the orchestrator either that or the command
and control center, both are appropriate,
so please keep that in mind.
The first case is when there's sequential processing.
Now this can be anything from a loan application
to a registration event.
In this situation, the need to dispatch messages
intended for remote workers,
depends on the current state of the system.
You cannot approve a loan for a customer for instance,
before the credit report is returned.
The credit score is critical piece of data
before the approval process
and as such the command and control center
must ensure it has a response on the credit score
before triggering downstream actions.
Again, in this model, all communications is asynchronous,
but the producer of the original message
becomes a consumer on the response.
The next use case,
and the one that I've used the most
is the command workflow scenario.
Consider for a moment, the need to allocate infrastructure,
before installing Kubernetes into a cloud provider
in an automated fashion.
You can make direct calls,
but often the blocking nature of those calls
hinders the throughput of the system.
As such, you can dispatch the event to a worker process.
The worker does its work, say provision virtual machines.
And when it is done, sends a response message
back to the intended command and control center.
Once it has the infrastructure it needs,
it can then dispatch another message
to install Kubernetes to another worker,
providing the connection details
of the newly created virtual machines.
This model allows for many Kubernetes clusters
to be spun up at once through a single orchestrator call,
since the calls become non-blocking asynchronous messages.
The examples are endless here,
but the pattern should be clear.
The final use case exists in almost every other use case
for orchestrated events, and that is a response required.
Anytime you are doing asynchronous messaging
and you need a response, be it for sequential processing,
command workflows or other use cases,
the orchestrator can be the point,
where this response structure exists.
It will usually aggregate all of the responses
into a master status that is available,
to any system interested.
Most often the event originator.
Each step can respond to the orchestrator via messaging
as needed, but the master response will be aggregated
in this model.
This process is a little more intensive
than the choreographed model.
So let's walk through it.
Once again, we start with a message broker.
We then have an orchestrator.
It knows about the message broker.
We also have an event producer.
In this diagram,
it will make an asynchronous restful call over HHTP.
We then have several steps,
each of those steps knows about the message broker.
The event producer makes a call to the orchestrator.
It creates a message and sends it to the broker.
The broker then exposes the message for the first step,
which receives the message and does work.
When it's done,
it sends a message back to the message broker,
which the orchestrator receives.
All the while the poller,
maybe polling the orchestrator for a response.
This process continues until all of our work is done.
When finished the polling will succeed
and the entire work is done for our system.
Now of course this model has some benefits
and some trade-offs.
The first trade-off is decreased performance
or choreography.
Because you have a centralized orchestrator,
the steps funnel through a single process.
As such you decrease performance.
Now the orchestrator must have a state machine of some kind
to keep track of the status responses
and code paths that handle the downstream actions.
This all increases the total cost of ownership.
The orchestrator needs to be beefier
and often needs to have much more complex code.
These costs in both operations and developer efficiencies.
Because of the centralized control however,
you increase your reliability.
The orchestrator can use its state to resubmit jobs
that need to be processed.
You can also build in much more robust error handling
for outlier conditions.
This centralized controller becomes the sweet spot
for observability.
While you still have disjointed processes
that aren't solved in this model for observability,
this central point can produce more logging and metrics
that can help an operations team.